but an early entry into the diseasespan is often
 a sign that your cells are aging.

 And studies show that people who feel
 older than their biological age also tend to be sicker earlier than people
 who feel younger (not placebo)

 But really, aging doesn’t have to be so traumatic.

 If your answers to our three questions suggest that you look and feel
 older than your age, perhaps it’s because your telomeres are wearing
 down faster than they should.

 Those short telomeres could be sending
 your cells a signal that it’s time to fast-forward the aging process.

 There’s plenty you can do to fight
 premature aging where it counts the most: at the cellular level.
 > However, you can’t successfully fight your enemy until you really understand it

 # HOW ARE PREMATURELY AGING CELLS DIFFERENT FROM HEALTHY CELLS?

  Your body has finely calibrated systems for assessing when a
 cell needs to be renewed; even though a body tissue can look the same
 for years, it is constantly being replaced by new cells in just the right
 numbers and at the correct rate.

  But remember that some cells have a
 limit to how many times they can divide.

 when cells can no longer
 renew themselves, the body tissues they supply will start to age and
 function poorly 

 Cells in our tissues originate from stem cells, which have the amazing
 ability to become many different types of specialized cells. (Stem cells are specialized cells with the potential to develop into various cell types in the body.)

 They live in
 stem cell niches, which are a kind of VIP lounge where stem cells are
 protected and lie dormant until they are needed. (The niches are usually in
 or near the tissues that the stem cells will replace.)

 Stem cells for skin live
 under the hair follicles, some stem cells for the heart live in the right
 ventricular wall, and muscle stem cells live deep in the fiber of the
 muscle.  ( If all is well, the stem cells remain in their niche) 

  But when there
 is a need to replenish tissues, the stem cell appears on deck. 
 // In short: "on deck" = "in formation, ready, in the active phase."


It divides
 and produces proliferative cells—sometimes called progenitor cells—
and some of their progeny cells transform into whatever specialized cell
 is needed.
 > Proliferation is the proliferation of body tissue by cell division.