Of course! Let's formalize the attack and prove that G(s) is not a pseudorandom generator (PRG).

**Definition:**

* Let G(s) = s ||s, where || is a concatenation and s is a string of length n.
* Define the discriminator D(x), where x is a string of length 2n.

**Discriminator D(x):**

1. Divide x into two halves: x1 (the first n characters) and x2 (the last n characters).
2. If x1 == x2, then D(x) = 1 (D believes that x is the output of G(s)).
3. Otherwise, D(x) = 0 (D believes that x is a random string).

**Analysis:**

We need to calculate the advantage of the discriminator D:

$$Adv(D) = |Pr[D(G(s)) = 1] - Pr[D(r) = 1]|$$

where:

* s is a random string of length n.
* r is a random string of length 2n.
*   Pr[...] is the probability of the event.

**1. The probability that D(G(s)) = 1:**

If the input D is G(s), then D will always return 1, because G(s) always has the form s||s, and therefore x1 will always be equal to x2.

$$Pr[D(G(s)) = 1] = 1$$

**2. The probability that D(r) = 1:**

If the input D is a random string r of length 2n, then D will return 1 only if the first half of r(r1) is equal to the second half of r(r2). The probability of this event:

Assume that the first half of r(r1) has already been selected.  Then the probability that the second half of r(r2) happens to be exactly the same as r1 is 1/ (the number of possible values of r2).  Since r2 is a string of length n, and each character can take 2 values (for example, 0 or 1), the number of possible values of r2 is 2^n.

$$Pr[D(r) = 1] = \frac{1}{2^n}$$

**3. Calculating the advantage:**

Now we can calculate the advantage of the discriminator D:

$$Adv(D) = |1 - \frac{1}{2^n}| = 1 - \frac{1}{2^n}$$

**4. Negligible function analysis:**

To show that G is not a PRG, we need to show that Adv(D) is not a negligible function.

A function f(n) is called negligible if for any constant c > 0 there exists an N such that for all n >N |f(n)| < 1/n^c holds.

In our case, Adv(D) = 1 - (1/2^n).  We have to prove that this function is *not* negligible.  Assume the opposite: that Adv(D) is negligible.  Then:

For any c > 0, there exists an N such that for all n > N:

$$|1 - \frac{1}{2^n}| < \frac{1}{n^c}$$

However, this is incorrect.  Take, for example, c = 1.  Then we need to:

$$1 - \frac{1}{2^n} < \frac{1}{n}$$

But 1 - (1/2^n) tends to 1, and 1/n tends to 0 when n tends to infinity.  Therefore, the inequality does not hold for sufficiently large n. Hence, 1 - (1/2^n)  is not negligible.

**Output:**

Since we have found the discriminator D, which has the advantage Adv(D)= 1 - (1/2^n) is not a negligible function, we can conclude that G(s)=s/|s is not a pseudorandom generator.