The following are key terms for systems performance. Later chapters provide additional terms
and describe some of these in different contexts.

■ IOPS: Input/output operations per second is a measure of the rate of data transfer opera-
tions. For disk I/O, IOPS refers to reads and writes per second.

■ Throughput: The rate of work performed. Especially in communications, the term is
used to refer to the data rate (bytes per second or bits per second). In some contexts (e.g.,
databases) throughput can refer to the operation rate (operations per second or transactions
per second).

■ Response time: The time for an operation to complete. This includes any time spent
waiting and time spent being serviced (service time), including the time to transfer the
result.

■ Latency: A measure of time an operation spends waiting to be serviced. In some contexts
it can refer to the entire time for an operation, equivalent to response time. See Section 2.3,
Concepts, for examples.

■ Utilization: For resources that service requests, utilization is a measure of how busy a
resource is, based on how much time in a given interval it was actively performing work.
For resources that provide storage, utilization may refer to the capacity that is consumed
(e.g., memory utilization).

■ Saturation: The degree to which a resource has queued work it cannot service.

■ Bottleneck: In systems performance, a bottleneck is a resource that limits the perfor-
mance of the system. Identifying and removing systemic bottlenecks is a key activity of
systems performance.

■ Workload: The input to the system or the load applied is the workload. For a database, the
workload consists of the database queries and commands sent by the clients.
2.2 Models 23

■ Cache: A fast storage area that can duplicate or buffer a limited amount of data, to avoid
communicating directly with a slower tier of storage, thereby improving performance. For
economic reasons, a cache is often smaller than the slower tier.

The Glossary includes more terminology for reference if needed